                           Day 2 Intensive Reading Part I
   完成本日学习后，请打卡章节四句子翻译的译文，老师会随机抽取点评。


一、今日学习范围


     People don’t agree on much these days. But one thing brings them together,
whatever their politics: the idea that, because social media harm children and
teenagers, they should be banned from using them. In December Australia stopped
under-16s from having accounts on platforms including Facebook, Instagram and
TikTok. A dozen countries, including Britain and Spain, are now toying with the idea;
so are legislators in many American states. More than 70% of Britons support kicking
under-16s off such sites, as do two-thirds of Americans. The problem is, bans will do
more harm than good.
     The proposals arise from an understandable desire to keep youngsters safe and
healthy. Parents have been shaken by tragedies in which social media have played a
role, of children being tricked into sharing explicit pictures of themselves, or taking
their own lives after algorithms shovelled them content about self-harm. Along with
those shocking cases comes a second, more general worry: that social media might be
damaging children as a group, making them reserved, lonely and anxious.
     Even parents who are confident they can keep their children from serious harm
fret that their offspring are wasting hours scrolling through mindless memes. They
would like to stop them, but fear that their kids will suffer if they are the only
members of their class not on the apps. Blanket bans appear to offer an easy answer
— and politicians are only too happy to seize on a measure that, for once, pleases
voters from all parties.




                                        —1—
二、细节理解


1. According to the passage, what is the common view shared by most people
nowadays?
A. Social media exert an overall positive influence on adolescent development.
B. People with different political beliefs share the same hobbies.
C. Social media should be banned for children and teenagers.
D. Under-16s should be guided to use social media properly.


2. What is the attitude of most British and American people toward banning social
media for under-16s?
A. They firmly object to the implementation of such bans.
B. They remain uncertain about the effectiveness of the bans.
C. They express strong approval of the restrictive measures.
D. They show little concern about relevant policy proposals.


3. Why does the public support banning social media for youngsters?
A. To protect young people from potential risks and health problems.
B. To help adolescents concentrate more effectively on their academic work.
C. To cut down the public’s dependence on electronic devices.
D. To control the rapid expansion of social media platforms.


4. What does the underlined word “suffer” in Paragraph 3 imply?
A. Children may physically suffer from poor health.
B. Children may get punished and told off by adults.
C. Children may lose interest in their academic studies.
D. Children may become isolated and excluded from their peers.


5. What is the author’s opinion on social media bans for young people?
A. Critical.
                                         —2—
B. Supportive.
C. Optimistic.
D. Indifferent.


三、功能词填空
     不要对照原文，请完成下列填空题，填入合适的介词、连词、代词。


     People don’t agree on much these days. But one thing brings them together,
(1)______ their politics: the idea that, because social media harm children and
teenagers, (2)______ should be banned from using them. In December Australia
stopped under-16s (3)______ having accounts on platforms (4)______ Facebook,
Instagram and TikTok. A dozen countries, including Britain and Spain, are now toying
with the idea; so are legislators in many American states. More than 70% of Britons
support kicking under-16s off such sites, as do two-thirds (5)______ Americans. The
problem is, bans will do more harm than good.
     The proposals arise (6)______ an understandable desire to keep youngsters safe
and healthy. Parents have been shaken by tragedies in (7)______ social media have
played a role, of children being tricked into sharing explicit pictures of (8)______, or
taking their own lives (9)______ algorithms shovelled them content about self-harm.
Along (10)______ those shocking cases comes a second, more general worry: that
social media might be damaging children as a group, making them reserved, lonely
and anxious.


四、句子翻译（记得打卡）


Sentence 1:
     Parents have been shaken by tragedies in which social media have played a role,
of children being tricked into sharing explicit pictures of themselves, or taking their
own lives after algorithms shovelled them content about self-harm.


                                         —3—
你的译文：




Sentence 2:
     Even parents who are confident they can keep their children from serious harm
fret that their offspring are wasting hours scrolling through mindless memes.


你的译文：




五、原文精读学习


   People don’t agree on much these days. But one thing brings them together,
    whatever their politics: the idea that, because social media harm children and
    teenagers, they should be banned from using them.


词汇精讲
     agree on (phr.)：就……达成一致意见；在……方面有共识
     bring together (phr.)：使团结；使达成共识
     politics [plural]：（此处）政治立场；政见
     ban (v.)：禁止；取缔。常用结构：ban sb from doing sth 禁止某人做某事


                                        —4—
句子分析
    whatever their politics 为省略结构的让步状语从句，完整形式为 whatever their
politics may be，原句省略了 may be。whatever 在这里可以和 no matter what 互换，
句子可变为 no matter what their politics are，大意为“无论他们的政治立场如何”。
    the idea that, because social media harm children and teenagers, they should be
banned from using them 一句中，that 引导的是同位语从句，即对前面的 the idea
进行具体解释说明；同位语从句内部又包含一个 because 引导的原因状语从句。
翻译时“the idea that”可以酌情省略。


   In December Australia stopped under-16s from having accounts on platforms
    including Facebook, Instagram and TikTok. A dozen countries, including Britain
    and Spain, are now toying with the idea; so are legislators in many American
    states. More than 70% of Britons support kicking under-16s off such sites, as do
    two-thirds of Americans. The problem is, bans will do more harm than good.


词汇精讲
    stop sb from doing sth (phr.)：阻止某人做某事
    dozen (n.)：十几个，一打
    toy with sth (phr.)：不太认真地考虑
    legislator (n.)：立法委员
    kick sb off sth (phr.)：把某人从……赶走


句子分析
    so are legislators...为倒装结构，表示前面所说的情况也适用于另一主语；恢
复为正常 语序应为“legislators in many American states are also toying with the
idea”，翻译时，可以使用“也”来凸显此处原文的含义。
    as do two-thirds of Americans 为方式状语从句的倒装结构，表示“三分之二
的美国人也同样如此”，正常语序为 as two-thirds of Americans do，其中这里的 do
指代前文的“support kicking under-16s off such sites”。


                                       —5—
    The problem is, ...一句为表语从句，省略了本应在 is 后的引导词 that，完整
结构为“The problem is that bans will do more harm than good.”。本句话中的 do
more harm than good 是“弊大于利”的常见表达，可以积累下来。类似的表达还
有：the disadvantages outweigh the advantages；be counterproductive（这篇文章后
文也出现了）。


   The proposals arise from an understandable desire to keep youngsters safe and
    healthy. Parents have been shaken by tragedies in which social media have played
    a role, of children being tricked into sharing explicit pictures of themselves, or
    taking their own lives after algorithms shovelled them content about self-harm.


词汇精讲
    proposal (n.)：提议，建议
    arise from (phr.)：由……引起
    understandable (adj.)：可以理解的
    youngster (n.)：青少年，年轻人
    trick sb into doing sth (phr.)：骗某人做某事
    explicit (adj.)：露骨的
    take one’s own life (phr.)：自杀
    algorithm (n.)：算法
    shovel (v.)：大量推送


句子分析
    “to keep youngsters safe and healthy”为不定式作后置定语，修饰 desire。此
外，desire 前还有 understandable 一词修饰。翻译时要考虑译文的表达，切不可
直接在 desire 前加入过多修饰语，要能灵活变通。
    “Parents have been shaken by tragedies in which...”一句话较长，拆分来看。
主句内容为 Parents have been shaken by tragedies；in which 引导定语从句，修饰
先行词 tragedies，相当于 where，即“social media have played a role in tragedies”；


                                        —6—
“of children...”是 of 引导的同位语结构，用于具体解释前面 tragedies 的内容，
即 tragedies of children being tricked...；being tricked...和 taking their own lives 是并
列的动名词复合结构，共同作 of 的宾语；“after...”在句子里作时间状语，修饰
前面的 taking their own lives。


   Along with those shocking cases comes a second, more general worry: that social
    media might be damaging children as a group, making them reserved, lonely and
    anxious.


词汇精讲
    along with (phr.)：连同……一起；与……一道
    reserved (adj.)：内向寡言的


句子分析
    本句为完全倒装结构，变为正常语序为“A second, more general worry comes
along with those shocking cases.”。当表示地点或方式的状语（here, there, up, down,
along with……）置于句首时，常使用完全倒装（把整个谓语提到主语前），以保
持句子平衡或强调。
    冒号后的 that 从句为同位语从句，是对前面的抽象名词 worry 进行具体解释
说明；making them...是现在分词短语作结果状语，表示社交媒体带来的结果。


   Even parents who are confident they can keep their children from serious harm
    fret that their offspring are wasting hours scrolling through mindless memes.
    They would like to stop them, but fear that their kids will suffer if they are the
    only members of their class not on the apps.


词汇精讲
    keep sb from sth/doing sth (phr.)：阻止/保护某人免受……；使某人不做某事
    fret (v.)：苦恼；焦虑不安


                                        —7—
    offspring (n.)：后代、子女（单复同形）
    scroll through (phr.)：（在手机/电脑上）滚动浏览
    mindless (adj.)：无脑的；不用动脑的
    meme (n.)：表情包、梗图


句子分析
    第一句话中如果不认识 fret 一词，很大概率可能会不理解本句话的意思。阅
读时，要根据句子结构大胆推测。本句话的主语 parents 有一个较长的定语“who
are confident... harm”来修饰，其中的 they can keep... harm 是形容词 confident 后
                 “that their offspring... memes”是动词 fret 后的
接的宾语从句，harm 此时是名词；
宾语从句；scrolling through... memes 是现在分词作伴随状语，在 waste time doing
sth 结构中作伴随或方式状语，表示浪费时间时所做的具体行为。
    第二句话比较简单，是由 but 连接的两个并列句。not on the apps 表示“不用
这些（社交媒体）应用”。这句话需要能够结合 only member 与 class 之间的对比
含义，读懂 suffer 一词的潜在含义。


   Blanket bans appear to offer an easy answer — and politicians are only too happy
    to seize on a measure that, for once, pleases voters from all parties.


词汇精讲
    blanket bans (n.)：全面禁令（blanket 此处为形容词，意为“包括所有情形（或
人员）的；总括的”）
    only too… to…(phr.)：非常/极其……（此处不表示否定，不要与 too...to...混
淆）
    seize on (phr.)：抓住，利用（机会、想法、提议等可利用的食物）
    for once (phr.)：难得一次；就这一次


句子分析
    作者用“easy answer”这个短语，暗含其对社交媒体全面禁令的否定态度：


                                         —8—
问题很复杂，不能靠“一禁了之”解决。类似的表达这里还可以替换为“(a) quick
fix”。measure 后的 that 从句为定语从句，用于修饰先行词 measure。




                        —9—
