                        Day 3 Intensive Reading Part II
   完成本日学习后，请打卡章节四句子翻译的译文，老师会随机抽取点评。


一、今日学习范围


     Yet policymakers should reconsider. The question of whether social media are
causing mass harm is far from settled. Growing evidence suggests they are bad for at
least some children. But the claim that social media cause great damage to the mental
health of young people as a whole has only limited evidence. And even if you wanted
to ban social media as a precaution pending conclusive findings, such measures
threaten to be counterproductive.
     One problem is that enforcing bans is hard; teenagers in Australia are finding
ingenious ways to get round them, by scrunching up their faces to look older.
Defining social media is hard, too. Australia has not banned young teenagers from
messaging apps such as WhatsApp, or from multiplayer online games, because that
would have seemed too draconian; scourges such as cyberbullying will doubtless
continue on these. Kids barred from mainstream sites could flock to obscure ones, and
fall victim to predators there. Children who evade the blocks may be less likely to tell
adults if they find something horrid, for fear of being told off.
     Moreover, the proponents of bans ignore how they would deprive children of the
benefits of social media. They are a blessing to children who feel isolated: perhaps
because of their location, their sexuality, or because their brains work differently from
those of others. Social media can broaden young minds, giving children from all
backgrounds a window onto fresh places and people. Like it or not, social sites are
now one of the main ways children obtain information (as well as misinformation)
about current affairs. It used to be easy for youngsters to pick up their parents’ printed
newspapers. They sat through news bulletins aired before or after their favourite
shows. Those days are no more.




                                          —1—
二、细节理解


1. Why does the author say the question of social media causing mass harm is “far
from settled”?
A. There is no evidence indicating that social media are bad for children.
B. The majority of children gain more benefits than drawbacks from social media.
C. The available evidence only confirms harm to some children, not all.
D. Policy-makers have not reached a definitive conclusion on this matter.


2. In what way do teenagers in Australia manage to bypass the social media ban?
A. By making use of their parents’ registered accounts.
B. By altering facial expressions to look older.
C. By resorting to messaging applications such as WhatsApp.
D. By turning to less well-known social platforms.


3. Why Australia did not prohibit teenagers from using messaging apps?
A. Because they are completely free from potential harm.
B. Because it is impossible to carry out such a ban effectively.
C. Because cyberbullying never occurs on these messaging platforms.
D. Because such a measure would be excessively rigid and harsh.


4. Which of the following is NOT regarded as a benefit that social media brings to
children?
A. Safeguarding children from the threat of cyberbullying.
B. Assisting children who feel isolated in establishing connections with others.
C. Serving as a channel for children to acquire information about current events.
D. Expanding children’s vision and gaining more knowledge.


5. What can be inferred from the last paragraph?
A. In the past, children mainly obtained news through social media platforms.
                                         —2—
B. At present, parents no longer have the habit of reading printed newspapers.
C. At present, social media is a significant information source for children.
D. In the past, children were reluctant to watch news bulletins on TV.


三、功能词填空
     不要对照原文，请完成下列填空题，填入合适的介词、连词、代词。


     Yet policymakers should reconsider. The question of whether social media are
causing mass harm is far (1)______ settled. Growing evidence suggests they are bad
for at least some children. But the claim (2)______ social media cause great damage
(3)______ the mental health of young people as a whole has only limited evidence.
And even if you wanted to ban social media as a precaution (4)______ conclusive
findings, such measures threaten to be counterproductive.
     One problem is that enforcing bans is hard; teenagers in Australia are finding
ingenious ways to get round (5)______, (6)______ scrunching up their faces to look
older. Defining social media is hard, too. Australia has not banned young teenagers
from messaging apps such as WhatsApp, or (7)______ multiplayer online games,
because that would have seemed too draconian; scourges such as cyberbullying will
doubtless continue on (8)______. Kids barred from mainstream sites could flock to
obscure ones, and fall victim (9)______ predators there. Children who evade the
blocks may be less likely to tell adults if they find (10)______ horrid, for fear of being
told off.


四、句子翻译（记得打卡）


Sentence 1:
     And even if you wanted to ban social media as a precaution pending conclusive
findings, such measures threaten to be counterproductive.




                                          —3—
你的译文：




Sentence 2:
     They are a blessing to children who feel isolated: perhaps because of their
location, their sexuality, or because their brains work differently from those of others.


你的译文：




五、原文精读学习


   Yet policymakers should reconsider. The question of whether social media are
    causing mass harm is far from settled. Growing evidence suggests they are bad
    for at least some children. But the claim that social media cause great damage to
    the mental health of young people as a whole has only limited evidence.


词汇精讲
     policymaker (n.)：政策制定者
     reconsider (v.)：重新考虑
     far from：远非、完全不。后接形容词，表示否定含义


                                          —4—
    settle the question：解决问题
    growing (adj.)：增加的；增长的；越来越多的。仅用于名词前
    mental health：心理健康


句子分析
    第一句话为简单句，主干清晰明了。第二句话中，of whether social media are
causing mass harm 为介词短语作后置定语，修饰前面的 the question，说明是“什
么样的问题”。翻译时考虑将此部分的内容单独成句，避免中文的定语过长。settle
和 question 的搭配也值得积累。
    第三句话中的 suggest 后省略了 that，they are bad for...为 suggest 的宾语从句。
Evidence suggests...是英语议论文写作中常用的句型，使用时注意 suggest 的单复
数。这里的 suggest 还可以替换为 indicate，show，reveal。
    第四句话中，claim 后边的 that social media cause ... young people as a whole
为同位语从句，解释说明 the claim 的具体内容；本句话的主干内容是 the claim has
only limited evidence。翻译本句话时，切勿照搬原文结构，要结合中文的表达习
惯调整语序。


   And even if you wanted to ban social media as a precaution pending conclusive
    findings, such measures threaten to be counterproductive.


词汇精讲
    precaution (n.)：预防措施
    pending (prep.)：直到……为止；在等待……期间
    conclusive (adj.)：确凿的；不容置疑的
    threaten to do sth：预示/可能有……危险
    counterproductive (adj.)：事与愿违的；适得其反的


句子分析
    本句是主从复合句。句子结构本身不复杂，但如果对 pending 一词不够熟悉


                                       —5—
的话，可能会造成理解困难。even if 引导让步状语从句，表示“即便、即使”；
pending conclusive findings 作状语，意为“在得出确凿结论之前”。


   One problem is that enforcing bans is hard; teenagers in Australia are finding
    ingenious ways to get round them, by scrunching up their faces to look older.


词汇精讲
    ingenious (adj.)：巧妙的
    get round/around sth (phr.)：成功对付；解决；克服
    scrunch (sth) up (phr.)：把……挤成一团


句子分析
    one problem is that...中，that 引导表语从句，说明主语 one problem 的具体内
容。ingenious ways to get round them 中的 ingenious ways，在翻译时可以考虑词
性转换的方法，使译文的表达更加地道。by scrunching up...是介词短语作方式状
语，说明青少年如何避开禁令。


   Defining social media is hard, too. Australia has not banned young teenagers
    from messaging apps such as WhatsApp, or from multiplayer online games,
    because that would have seemed too draconian; scourges such as cyberbullying
    will doubtless continue on these.


词汇精讲
    ban sb from sth./doing sth：禁止某人使用某物；禁止某人做某事
    messaging apps：即时通讯应用
    multiplayer online games：多人在线游戏
    draconian (adj.)：严厉的
    scourge (n.)：祸害、灾害
    cyberbully (v.)：网络霸凌


                                        —6—
    doubtless (adv.)：几乎肯定地


句子分析
    第一句话句子结构简明清楚，defining...为动名词短语作主语。第二句话中，
注 意主 体结 构 采用 了 ban sb from A or from B ， 即 from message apps or from
multiplayer online games；because 后边的主语选择使用 that 指代前面的内容，简
洁明了，下一句话中的 these 也是同理，在写作中可以加以应用。


   Kids barred from mainstream sites could flock to obscure ones, and fall victim to
    predators there. Children who evade the blocks may be less likely to tell adults if
    they find something horrid, for fear of being told off.


词汇精讲
    bar (v.)：禁止，阻拦。常用结构：bar sb from doing sth，禁止某人做某事，
与 ban、prevent 表达的含义相同。
    mainstream (adj.)：主流的
    flock to (phr.)：蜂拥至
    obscure (adj.)：鲜为人知的
    fall victim to (phr.)：成为……的受害者
    horrid (adj.)：非常讨厌的、可怕的
    for fear of：生怕、担心
    tell sb off (for/for doing sth) (phr.)：因某事责备、数落某人


句子分析
    第一句话中的 barred from mainstream sites 为过去分词短语作后置定语，用
于修饰 kids，表示“被禁止使用”。ones 指代前面刚出现的复数名词 sites，避免
重复。第二句话是典型的英语长句结构，利用介词、连词等将不同的成分串联起
来，且逻辑非常清晰，谁→在什么条件下→做什么→为什么。


   Moreover, the proponents of bans ignore how they would deprive children of the
                                         —7—
    benefits of social media. They are a blessing to children who feel isolated:
    perhaps because of their location, their sexuality, or because their brains work
    differently from those of others.


词汇精讲
    proponent (n.)：支持者
    deprive sb of sth (phr.)：剥夺
    blessing (n.)：好事；有益之事。常见谚语：a blessing in disguise，因祸得福


句子分析
    这两句中同样注意就近指代。第一句话中的 how they...中的 they 指代的是
bans；第二句话中的 They are a blessing to...中的 they 指代的 social media。
    第二句话中，使用冒号引出了多重原因解释，在翻译时注意调整语序，使译
文符合汉语的表达习惯。


   Social media can broaden young minds, giving children from all backgrounds a
    window onto fresh places and people. Like it or not, social sites are now one of
    the main ways children obtain information (as well as misinformation) about
    current affairs.


词汇精讲
    broaden one’s mind：开阔眼界、拓宽思维
    a window onto...：了解……的窗口
    like it or not：不管喜不喜欢；无论如何


句子分析
    第一句话中的 giving...是现在分词短语作结果状语，表示自然而然的结果。
Like it or not 是固定插入语，放句首表让步。children obtain information...是定语
从句，修饰 the main ways，省略了关系词 that /in which。


                                        —8—
   It used to be easy for youngsters to pick up their parents’ printed newspapers.
    They sat through news bulletins aired before or after their favourite shows. Those
    days are no more.


词汇精讲
    printed newspapers：纸质报纸
    sit through：坐到（表演、演讲、会议等）结束
    air (v.)：播出、放松


句子分析
    第一句话采用的是形式主语，句子结构为 it used to be+adj+for sb to do sth，
句子大意为“过去对某人来说做某事很容易”。第二句话中的 aired before or after
their favourite shows 为过去分词短语作后置定语，修饰 news bulletins，表示“被
    “Those days are no more.”为高级地道的表达，表示“这样的日子一去
播出的”。
不复返了”。




                                        —9—
